# 621. Task Scheduler


You are given an array of CPU `tasks`, each represented by letters A to Z, and a cooling time, `n`. Each cycle or interval allows the completion of one task. Tasks can be completed in any order, but there's a constraint: identical tasks must be separated by at least n intervals due to cooling time.

Return *the minimum number of intervals required to complete all tasks.*

 

**Example 1:**

>Input: tasks = ["A","A","A","B","B","B"], n = 2
>
>Output: 8
>
>Explanation: A possible sequence is: A -> B -> idle -> A -> B -> idle -> A -> B.
>
>After completing task A, you must wait two cycles before doing A again. The same applies to task B. In the 3rd interval, neither A nor B can be done, so you idle. By the 4th cycle, you can do A again as 2 intervals have passed.

**Example 2:**

>Input: tasks = ["A","C","A","B","D","B"], n = 1
>
>Output: 6
>
>Explanation: A possible sequence is: A -> B -> C -> D -> A -> B.
>
>With a cooling interval of 1, you can repeat a task after just one other task.

**Example 3:**

>Input: tasks = ["A","A","A", "B","B","B"], n = 3
>
>Output: 10
>
>Explanation: A possible sequence is: A -> B -> idle -> idle -> A -> B -> idle -> idle -> A -> B.
>
>There are only two types of tasks, A and B, which need to be separated by 3 intervals. This leads to idling twice between repetitions of these tasks.

 

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= tasks.length <= 104`
* `tasks[i]` is an uppercase English letter.
* `0 <= n <= 100`

```python
class Solution:
    def leastInterval(self, tasks: List[str], n: int) -> int:
        # two situations
        # 1. most freq task has enough space for every other tasks, no idle needed
        # len(tasks)
        # 2. most freq task doesn't have enough space for other tasks, idle needed
        # 1 + n ==> 1 most freq task + n cooling periods
        # most freq - 1 ==> noone cares the last occurence of the most freq task
        # ans = max(1, 2)
        
        # count the freq of each task
        counter = collections.Counter(tasks)

        # situation 1
        s1 = len(tasks)
        
        # situation 2
        # find most freq in the tasks
        mx_freq = -1
        for freq in counter.values():
            mx_freq = max(mx_freq, freq)
        n_mx_freq = list(counter.values()).count(mx_freq)
        # A:3 B:3 C:3... there might be multiple task with same frequency
        # all of them are put at the end of the list
        s2 = (1 + n) * (mx_freq - 1) + n_mx_freq
        return max(s1, s2)
```
