# 1763. Longest Nice Substring


A string `s` is **nice** if, for every letter of the alphabet that `s` contains, it appears **both** in uppercase and lowercase. For example, `"abABB"` is nice because `'A'` and `'a'` appear, and `'B'` and `'b'` appear. However, `"abA"` is not because `'b'` appears, but `'B'` does not.

Given a string `s`, return *the longest **substring** of `s` that is nice. If there are multiple, return the substring of the **earliest** occurrence. If there are none, return an empty string.*

 

**Example 1:**

>**Input**: s = "YazaAay"  
**Output**: "aAa"  
**Explanation**: "aAa" is a nice string because 'A/a' is the only letter of the alphabet in s, and both 'A' and 'a' appear.  
"aAa" is the longest nice substring.  


**Example 2:**

>**Input**: s = "Bb"  
**Output**: "Bb"  
**Explanation**: "Bb" is a nice string because both 'B' and 'b' appear. The whole string is a substring. 
**Example 3:**

**Input**: s = "c"  
**Output**: ""  
**Explanation**: There are no nice substrings.  
 

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= s.length <= 100`
* `s` consists of uppercase and lowercase English letters.


## Divide and Conquer

```python
class Solution:
    def longestNiceSubstring(self, s: str) -> str:
        # divide and conquer + recursion
        # condition to end recursion
        if not s:
            return ""
        # store all character occur in the s
        sets = set(s)
        for i, c in enumerate(s):
            # we will keep dividing if swapcase not exists in current string, and finally return empty ""
            if c.swapcase() not in sets:
                # check the other two part, dump current char s[i]
                left = self.longestNiceSubstring(s[:i])
                right = self.longestNiceSubstring(s[i+1:])
                # left >= right, return left as the earliest occurrence if TIE 
                return left if len(left) >= len(right) else right
        # successfully iterate all chars in current string, return this NICE string
        return s
```
