# 216. Combination Sum III


Find all valid combinations of `k` numbers that sum up to `n` such that the following conditions are true:

Only numbers `1` through `9` are used.
Each number is used **at most once**.
Return *a list of all possible valid combinations.* The list must not contain the same combination twice, and the combinations may be returned in any order.


**Example 1:**

>Input: k = 3, n = 7  
Output: [[1,2,4]]  
Explanation:  
1 + 2 + 4 = 7  
There are no other valid combinations.  

**Example 2:**

>Input: k = 3, n = 9  
Output: [[1,2,6],[1,3,5],[2,3,4]]  
Explanation:  
1 + 2 + 6 = 9  
1 + 3 + 5 = 9  
2 + 3 + 4 = 9  
There are no other valid combinations.  

**Example 3:**  

>Input: k = 4, n = 1  
Output: []  
Explanation: There are no valid combinations.  
Using 4 different numbers in the range [1,9], the smallest sum we can get is 1+2+3+4 = 10 and since 10 > 1, there are no valid combination.  
 

**Constraints:**

* `2 <= k <= 9`
* `1 <= n <= 60`

## Pattern
1. All possible combinations: enumeration with tree -> backtracking.
2. Define arguments to pass, targetSum, startIndex, Path.
3. Template: `path.add()->dfs()->path.pop()`
4. Leaf cutting: `n - i` nodes left; `k - path.size()` nodes needed.
5. `n - i >= k - path.size()` --> `i <= k - path.size() + 1` inclusive left


## Backtracking(tree enumeration)

```python
class Solution:
    def combinationSum3(self, k: int, n: int) -> List[List[int]]:
        # Backtracking(enumeration in tree)
        combinations = []
        def backtracking(k, targetSum, startIndex, currSum, path):
            # target found
            if len(path) == k:      # only select k numbers, no need to go deeper
                if currSum == targetSum:
                    combinations.append(path.copy())
                return
            # backtrack both currSum and path
            # KEY: leaf cutting
            # 9 - i the number of nodes available
            # k - path.size() the numebr of nodes needed by the combinations
            # 9 - i >= k - path.size() ensure enough nodes to form the combinations
            # i <= 9 - (k - path.size()) + 1 inclusive start index
            for i in range(startIndex + 1, (9 - (k - len(path)) + 1) + 1):
                # the next num addition > target, break
                if currSum + i > targetSum:
                    break
                currSum += i
                path.append(i)
                backtracking(k, targetSum, i, currSum, path)
                currSum -= i
                path.pop()

        backtracking(k, n, 0, 0, [])
        return combinations
```
