# 1041. Robot Bounded In Circle

On an infinite plane, a robot initially stands at `(0, 0)` and faces north. Note that:

* The north direction is the positive direction of the y-axis.
* The south direction is the negative direction of the y-axis.
* The east direction is the positive direction of the x-axis.
* The west direction is the negative direction of the x-axis. 

The robot can receive one of three instructions:

* `"G"`: go straight 1 unit.
* `"L"`: turn 90 degrees to the left (i.e., anti-clockwise direction).
* `"R"`: turn 90 degrees to the right (i.e., clockwise direction).
* The robot performs the `instructions` given in order, and repeats them forever.

Return `true` if and only if there exists a circle in the plane such that the robot never leaves the circle.


**Example 1:**

>Input: instructions = "GGLLGG"
>Output: true
>Explanation: The robot is initially at (0, 0) facing the north direction.
>"G": move one step. Position: (0, 1). Direction: North.
>"G": move one step. Position: (0, 2). Direction: North.
>"L": turn 90 degrees anti-clockwise. Position: (0, 2). Direction: West.
>"L": turn 90 degrees anti-clockwise. Position: (0, 2). Direction: South.
>"G": move one step. Position: (0, 1). Direction: South.
>"G": move one step. Position: (0, 0). Direction: South.
>Repeating the instructions, the robot goes into the cycle: (0, 0) --> (0, 1) --> (0, 2) --> (0, 1) --> (0, 0).
>Based on that, we return true.

**Example 2:**

>Input: instructions = "GG"
>Output: false
>Explanation: The robot is initially at (0, 0) facing the north direction.
>"G": move one step. Position: (0, 1). Direction: North.
>"G": move one step. Position: (0, 2). Direction: North.
>Repeating the instructions, keeps advancing in the north direction and does not go into cycles.
>Based on that, we return false.

**Example 3:**

>Input: instructions = "GL"
>Output: true
>Explanation: The robot is initially at (0, 0) facing the north direction.
>"G": move one step. Position: (0, 1). Direction: North.
>"L": turn 90 degrees anti-clockwise. Position: (0, 1). Direction: West.
>"G": move one step. Position: (-1, 1). Direction: West.
>"L": turn 90 degrees anti-clockwise. Position: (-1, 1). Direction: South.
>"G": move one step. Position: (-1, 0). Direction: South.
>"L": turn 90 degrees anti-clockwise. Position: (-1, 0). Direction: East.
>"G": move one step. Position: (0, 0). Direction: East.
>"L": turn 90 degrees anti-clockwise. Position: (0, 0). Direction: North.
>Repeating the instructions, the robot goes into the cycle: (0, 0) --> (0, 1) --> (-1, 1) --> (-1, 0) --> (0, 0).
>Based on that, we return true.
 

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= instructions.length <= 100`
* `instructions[i]` is `'G'`, `'L'` or, `'R'`.


```python
class Solution:
    def isRobotBounded(self, instructions: str) -> bool:
        # simulation
        positions = {
            'N': [0, 1],
            'S': [0, -1],
            'W': [-1, 0],
            'E': [1, 0]
        }
        directions = {
            "NL": "W",
            "NR": "E",
            "WL": "S",
            "WR": "N",
            "EL": "N",
            "ER": "S",
            "SL": "E",
            "SR": "W"
        }

        origin, cur_pos = [0, 0], [0, 0]
        cur_dir = "N"
        for i in range(len(instructions)):
            # position
            if instructions[i] == "G":
                cur_pos[0] += positions[cur_dir][0]
                cur_pos[1] += positions[cur_dir][1]
            # direction
            else:
                cur_dir = directions[cur_dir + instructions[i]]
            
        # KEY: DIRECTION matters, after one iteration, if direction is north, only goes north further forever    
        #      otherwise, it will finally return to origin, W and S needs 4 round, S needs 2 round(up and down)
        # KEY: POSITION return to the origin
        return cur_dir != "N" or cur_pos == origin
```

